---
description: Funding High Value Public Goods
---

# Investment and Funding Competitions

The relatively large funding costs for these types of contributions require a better incentive system than charity to encourage money to flow into the system. Although the economic model will still be based on charity, we believe the significance of the discoveries in this sector will result in large amounts of donations in the form of tips subsequent to publication and evaluation. This in turn will enable contributors to offer investors the chance to share in these donations and make a profit from their investment. Further, given the highly specialised knowledge required for these topics, as well as the fact discoveries in this sector benefit everyone and not just concentrated interests, there is no need for a quadratic funding mechanism to guard against the influence of big money.&#x20;

In light of this we propose a hybrid system analogous to the public-private partnerships we often see in many industries today. Like the other information sectors, Olas will make a pool of funds available for Investigative Journalism and Scientific Research every quarter. There will also be funding rounds. However, unlike the other sectors, funding will only be granted once a market has given a research project a score. Further, the payout will be from a shared pot rather than a pot that has been set aside for a specific contributor. This increases greater uncertainty of funding from Olas as central funding is somewhat outside of each project's control. The number of other projects, their scores and their cost base are significant factors that determine a project's payout. However, since contributors get access to the funds in advance, in contrast to the other markets, the risk is not borne by them. It is borne by their funders. The reward for this risk, as stated above, is the possibility of making a profit on investment. &#x20;
